a
[music]
C
The masses listen, focusing their minds on the stone, asking questions.
Let's go to gather our attention,
to focus on our own feet,
not paying attention to the outside. Have we
achieved anything like that yet? Yes,
when we focus on ourselves and not
pay attention to the outside, do we find that
we have more tranquility? Yes,
tranquility appears when
we pay attention to our own actions, not the
actions of others.
Tranquility begins to appear.
We begin to have tranquility
when we see clearly, as the
master taught, that is, the surface of a lake is still, clear, and you
can see the stones underneath.
Every day we walk, but we
don't know we are walking; our feet are walking,
and our minds are thinking about other things,
so we don't have a Moment of
Tranquility. So now we
learn how to walk in meditation so that we can walk
but still be in tranquility. Is that clear?
Anyone whose mind is still wandering,
let's now gather our minds deeply.
When we extend our right foot forward, and our right foot is
visible in front of us, we must
say it's the right foot. When it touches
down, we say it touches. That's the
correct step: right touch, left touch, right touch, left touch, right touch, left touch, right touch,
left touch,
right touch, left touch, right touch,
left touch. That means when
we bring our foot here, we know
it's the left foot, so we say "left foot." Let's
repeat it. Let's
try raising our foot; we just need to
step forward, not walk.
Look here, this is called "right." Pull your foot back, pull your foot back,
bring your foot out to the right. Do
you understand? We shouldn't
say it from the beginning when we extend it;
we must say "pull your foot back,
bring your foot
out to the right, lower your foot
to touch." Do you understand?
No need to step over. Pull your foot back,
bring your foot out to the
right, lower your foot
to touch. Do you understand? Then
bring your foot
out to the
right, lower your foot to touch. Then
stand balanced, relax your body, and extend your
right foot
forward. This is the right foot. We
say "lower foot."  When you step down and feel your foot touch the
ground, then quickly
bring your right foot forward,
lower it,
and continue walking. Just follow your foot. After
a while, you'll find that your
mind is completely focused, not paying attention to anything
outside. Then you'll discover the profound
stillness within your mind.
In Buddhism, this stillness is about clearly seeing and knowing everything; that's what's
called true stillness.
If you're silent and don't
see or know anything, that's not true
stillness in Buddhism. So,
in Buddhism, it's called
stillness, but it's about knowing everything. Do you understand
this?
In Buddhism, movement and stillness are
n't about actions; the mind clearly knows
everything, that's called stillness.
Do you understand? If your mind only knows one
thing, it's still called movement,
not stillness. Knowing everything is called
stillness. But that's the result of practice.
Now, we're just practicing, do you understand?
But we must know what the result of
practice is: the mind knows everything,
not everything. Knowing everything
clearly—that's called stillness.  Is that clear?
Knowing everything but not following
anything is called stillness. But if
our mind only follows one thing, it's
called deep concentration. Do you understand? That's right,
knowing everything, for example, knowing everything
around us, knowing what's going on, knowing
only what's happening. But when
we focus our attention here, our mind
is moving, only following one thing, moving
within stillness. But if we are
completely focused deeply, then we
call that stillness. Do you understand? That's
why we have to keep going so that
we don't get distracted by external things.
We just stay in our own footsteps.
Later, we will
feel light and comfortable.
In the Dharma-discrimination factor, it's called
lightness and peace. That is, when we reach
a certain point in our focus, joy
arises, then lightness and peace arise.
So we keep going
without being distracted by external things. But that
's just the theory, do you understand?
Practice is still a long way off. But
that's just the theory, and we know
that theory...  That's how it is, and when we get
there and achieve that, only then can
we say we've put
this theory into practice, teacher. Do you understand?
Because if we don't
know what the result will be when we get there,
we won't try, and if
we don't try, we
won't experience it.
Do you understand?
C
[music]
am